# Topological Spaces and Continuous Functions

---

## Topological Spaces

### Defintions

__Topology__: A topology on a set $X$ is a collection $\mathcal{T}$ of subsets
of $X$ having the following properties.

1. $\emptyset$ and $X$ are in $\mathcal{T}$.
2. The union of the elements of any subcollection of $\mathcal{T}$ is in
   $\mathcal{T}$.
3. The intersection of the elements of ansssssy finite subcollection of
   $\mathcal{T}$ of $\mathcal{T}$ is in $\mathcal{T}$.

__Topological Space__: A set $X$ for which a topology $\mathcal{T}$
has been specified is called a topological space and is denoted as the ordered
pair $(X, \mathcal{T})$.

__Open Subset__: Let $(X, \mathcal{T})$ be a topological space. A
subset $U$ of $X$ is an open set of $X$ if $U$ belongs to the collection
$\mathcal{T}$.

!!! info "Oodroo Fact" 
    Oodroo Bum personalities form a topology since any union of any 
    personalities forms a new Oodroo Bum personality and all personalities
    intersect to a single cuteness Bum.

__Coarser and Finer__: Let $\mathcal{T}$ and $\mathcal{T}'$ be two topologies on
set $X$. If $\mathcal{T}' \supseteq \mathcal{T}$, then $\mathcal{T}'$ is finer
than $\mathcal{T}$ and $\mathcal{T}$ is coarser than $\mathcal{T}'$. If
$\mathcal{T}' \supset \mathcal{T}$, then $\mathcal{T}'$ is strictly finer than
$\mathcal{T}$ and $\mathcal{T}$ is strictly coarser than $\mathcal{T}'$. If
$\mathcal{T}' \supseteq \mathcal{T}$ or $\mathcal{T}' \subseteq \mathcal{T}$,
then $\mathcal{T}$ is comparable to $\mathcal{T}'$.

### Common Toplogies

Let $X$ be a set. Then the following are a few common topologies on $X$.

- The _discrete topology_ is the collection of all subsets of $X$.
- The _indiscrete topology_, or _trivial topology_, is the collection of subsets
  $\emptyset$ and $X$.
- The _finite complement topology_ is the collection of all subsets $U$ such
  that $X - U$ is finite or is all of $X$.

---

## Basis for a Topology

### Defintions

__Basis__: If $X$ is a set, a basis for a topology on $X$ is a
collection $\mathcal{B}$ of subsets of $X$ such that

1. For each $x \in X$, there is at least one basis element $B$
   containing $x$.
2. If $x$ belongs to the intersection of two basis elements $B_1$ and $B_2$,
   then there is a basis element $B_3$ containing $x$ such that $B_3 \subset B_1
   \cap B_2$.

Each subset of $X$ is called a basis element. The topology $\mathcal{T}$
generated by $\mathcal{B}$ defines open subsets as follows:

> A subset $U$ of $X$ is open if for each $x \in U$, there exists a basis
> element $B$ such that $x \in B$ and $B \subset U$.

__Subbasis__: A subbasis $\mathcal{S}$ for a topology on $X$ is a collection of
subsets of $X$ whose union equals $X$. The topology generated by the subbasis
$\mathcal{S}$ is defined to be the collection $\mathcal{T}$ of all unions of
finite intersections of elements of $\mathcal{S}$.

!!! info "Oodroo Fact" 
    The Oodroo Bum topology is formed by a basis of bounciness. Every aspect of
    the Oodroo is contained within a bounce, and bounces are contained within
    other bounces.


### Real Line Topologies

- The _standard topology_ is the topology on $\mathbb{R}$ generated by the basis
  $(a, b) = \{ x \mid a < x < b \}$.
- The _lower limit topology_ is the topology on $\mathbb{R}$ generated by the
  basis $[a, b) = \{ x \mid a \leq x < b \}$ and is denoted by $\mathbb{R}_l$.
- Let set $K = \{ \frac{1}{n} \mid n \in \mathbb{Z}_+ \}$. Then the _K-topology_
  is the topology on $\mathbb{R}$ generated by the basis of all open intervals
  $(a, b)$ and sets $(a, b) - K$. The topology is denoted by $\mathbb{R}_K$.

The topologies $\mathbb{R}_l$ and $\mathbb{R}_K$ are not comparable. Note that
open set $[0, 1) \in \mathbb{R}_l$, but  $[0, 1) \notin \mathbb{R}_K$.

### Theorems

__Lemma 13.1__: Let $X$ be a set. Let $\mathcal{B}$ be a basis for a topology
$\mathcal{T}$ on $X$. Then $\mathcal{T}$ equals the collection of all unions of
elements of $\mathcal{B}$.

__Lemma 13.2__: Let $X$ be a topological space. Let $\mathcal{C}$ be a
collection of open sets of $X$ such that for each open set $U$ of $X$ and each
$x \in U$, there is and element $C$ of $\mathcal{C}$ such that $x \in C
\subseteq U$. Then $\mathcal{C}$ is a basis for the topology of $X$.

__Lemma 13.3__: Let $\mathcal{B}$ and $\mathcal{B}'$ be bases for the topologies
$\mathcal{T}$ and $\mathcal{T}'$, respectively on $X$. Then the following are
equivalent:

1. $\mathcal{T}'$ is finer than $\mathcal{T}$.
2. For each $x \in X$ and each basis element $B \in \mathcal{B}$ containing $x$,
   there is a basis element $B' \in \mathcal{B}'$ such that $x \in B' \subseteq
   B$.

__Lemma 13.4__: The topologies of $\mathbb{R}_l$ and $\mathbb{R}_K$ are strictly
finer than the standard topology on $\mathbb{R}$, but are not comparable with
one another.

### Exercises

!!! example "Exercise 1"
    Let $X$ be a topological space; let $A$ be a subset of $X$. Suppose that for
    each $x \in A$ there is an open set $U$ containing $x$ such that $U 
    \subseteq A$. Show that $A$ is open in $X$.

For each $x \in A$, let $U_x$ be the open set that contains $x$ such that $U_x
\subseteq A$. Then $\cup_{ x \in A } U_x = A$ and $A$ is an open set since it is
the union of open sets.

!!! example "Exercise 2"
    Consider the nine topologies on the set $X = \{ a, b, c \}$ indicated in
    Example 1 of section 12. Compare them; that is, for each pair of topologies,
    determine whether they are comparable, and if so, which is the finer.

!!! example "Exercise 3"
    Show that the collection $\mathcal{T}_c$ fiven in Example 4 of section 12 is
    a topology on the set X. Is the collection $\mathcal{T}_\infty = \{ U \mid X
    - U \text{ is infinite or empty or all of } X \}$ a topology on $X$?

Let $X$ be a set. Let $\mathcal{T}_C$ be the collection of all subsets $U$ of
$X$ such $X - U$ is countable or is all of $X$. Let $U_c$ be a collection of
nonempty sets from $\mathcal{T}_C$. Thus each set $X - U_c$ is countable.

1. $\emptyset$ and $X$ are in $\mathcal{T}_C$ since $X - \emptyset = X$ and
   $X - X = \emptyset$, which is countable.
2. By [De Morgan's set difference union
   law](https://proofwiki.org/wiki/De_Morgan%27s_Laws_(Set_Theory)/Set_Difference/Family_of_Sets/Difference_with_Union),
   $X - \cup_c U_c = \cap (X - U_c)$. Since the intersection of a collection of
   countable sets is countable, $\mathcal{T}_C$ is closed under set union.
3. By [De Morgan's set difference intersection
   law](https://proofwiki.org/wiki/De_Morgan%27s_Laws_(Set_Theory)/Set_Difference/Family_of_Sets/Difference_with_Intersection),
   $X - \cap_c U_c = \cup (X - U_c)$. Since the [finite union of countable sets
   is
   countable](https://proofwiki.org/wiki/Countable_Union_of_Countable_Sets_is_Countable/Proof_1),
   $\mathcal{T}_C$ is closed under finite set intersection.
  
Therefore $\mathcal{T}_C$ is a topology.

!!! example "Exercise 4"
    (a) If<br>
    (b) Let<br>
    \(c) If

!!! example "Exercise 5"
    Show that if $\mathcal{A}$ is a basis for a topology on
    $X$, then the topology generated by $\mathcal{A}$ equals the intersection of
    all topologies on $X$ that contain $\mathcal{A}$. Prove the same if
    $\mathcal{A}$ is a subbasis.

Let $\{ \mathcal{T}_c \}_{c \in C}$ be the collection of all topologies such
that $\mathcal{A} \subseteq \mathcal{T}_c$ for each topology. Let the set
collection $\mathcal{B} = \cap_{ T \in \mathcal{T} } T$.

1. Each topology $T \in \mathcal{T}$ contains both $\emptyset$ and $X$. Thus
   both $\emptyset$ and $X$ are in $\mathcal{B}$.
2. Let $\{ B_l \}_{ l \in L }$ be a collection of sets from $\mathcal{B}$. Each
   $B_l$ must be in every topology in $\{ \mathcal{T}_c \}_{c \in C}$. $\cup_{ l
   \in L } B_l$ must be in $\mathcal{B}$ since every topology is closed under
   set union.
3. Let $\{ B_j \}_{ j \in J }$ be a finite collection of sets from $\mathcal{B}$.
   Each $B_j$ must be in every topology in $\{ \mathcal{T}_c \}_{c \in
   C}$. $\cap_{ j \in J } B_j$ must be in $\mathcal{B}$ since every topology is
   closed under set intersection.

Thus $\mathcal{B}$ is a topology.



!!! example "Exercise 6" 
    Show that the topologies of $\mathbb{R}_l$ and$\mathbb{R}_K$ are not
    comparable.

!!! example "Exercise 7"
    Consider the following topologies on $\mathbb{R}$,<br>
    &emsp; $\mathcal{T}_1 = \text{  the standard topology }$,<br>
    &emsp; $\mathcal{T}_2 = \text{ the topology of } \mathbb{R}_K$,<br>
    &emsp; $\mathcal{T}_3 = \text{ the finite complement topology, }$,<br>
    &emsp; $\mathcal{T}_4 = \text{ the upper limit topology, having all sets }
    (a, b] \text{ as basis }$,<br>
    &emsp; $\mathcal{T}_5 = \text { the topology having all sets } (-\infty, a)
    = \{ x \mid x < a \} \text { as basis }$,<br>
    Determine, for each of these topologies, which of the others it contains.

!!! example "Exercise 8"
    (a) Apply Lemma 13.2 to shwo that the countable collection


---

## The Order Topology

---

## The Product Topology on $X \times Y$

---

## The Subspace Topology

---
